{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 We are pleased to share out pipeline for ribosome profiling and other RNA-seq methods, XPRESSyourself!\
\
When I started graduate school, I was interested in using ribosome profiling in the context of metabolism. But I quickly discovered that the in silico portions can be difficult, especially for a newcomer to RNA biology. From there, I started building my pipeline into a more robust, flexible, functional package.\
\
XPRESSyourself is a software suite written in Python and R that wraps the most up-to-date software packages for processing sequence data, updates some existing quality control tools, and introduces new tools to the toolkit.\
\
For example, users of ribosome profiling should generally quantify their data to a reference that does not include the first 45 nt and last 15 nt of each CDS. Currently, no tools are publicly available that do this. Additionally, when performing ribosome profiling, rRNA depletion kits often miss a bulk of the ribosomal RNA. We introduce a tool that will analyze ribosome profiling libraries for an organism and tell the user the most abundant sequences that they can then design depletion probes against. \
\
This toolkit can also handle general RNA-seq datasets. A tool introduced allows you to analyze the sequence coverage over a single gene, similar to IGV, but in this tool, introns are collapsed so you can focus in on the coding/exonic space and don\'92t have your coding data diluted by enormous intron gaps. \
\
This pipeline can also handle any organism you want. Simply download the genomic FASTA files and transcriptomic GTF, curate the reference once using XPRESSpipe, and you are good to go!\
\
We believe that historically the best bioinformatics software has come about by a collaborative effort. We gladly welcome user contributions to the project. It is our hope that as XPRESSyourself is used more and more, we will add additional modules for DNA-seq, ChIP-seq, and more!}